UVIP : Add beta criteria (#4441)
kubernetes/enhancements: keps/sig-api-machinery/4020-unknown-version-interoperability-proxy/README.md

    with the resources it can serve and receiving a request for a resource
    that is not yet available on that apiserver).

* Discovery handling:

>   - We will proxy the discovery request to the newest available apiserver in the cluster. In doing so, we will ensure that all discovery requests are handled keeping the future state of the cluster in mind. 

Reviewer: I can't tell if this is proposing *always* redirecting discovery to the newest server, or only when servers disagree about the contents of discovery.

>   - We will proxy the discovery request to the newest available apiserver in the cluster. In doing so, we will ensure that all discovery requests are handled keeping the future state of the cluster in mind. 

Reviewer 2: I was thinking the former, i.e. always redirecting discovery to the latest apiserver. 
Thanks for clarifying my understanding of the GC and NLC behaviors. Yeah need to think more on how to handle the scenario where an API is not served by the latest apiserver.

>   - We will proxy the discovery request to the newest available apiserver in the cluster. In doing so, we will ensure that all discovery requests are handled keeping the future state of the cluster in mind. 

Reviewer 2: So, thinking more on how/whether to handle discovery requests as a part of UVIP I am seeing the following options:
a). implement a merged discovery doc as was originally proposed 
b). route discovery to newest apiserver
c). do nothing (drop discovery handling from UVIP)

Going by https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/4441#discussion_r1467028748, the compatibility version feature  will make it possible to implement merging far more simply. With compatibility version we would be able to track historical API information, and if we use that to serve discovery, we also avoid the problem of GC and NLC becoming unaware of the previously-present-now-absent APIs (which happens if we route discovery to newest apiserver as a part of UVIP).

Maybe we just let discovery be as it is now and not address that for UVIP? Which means we avoid introducing significant changes that may not all make sense considering there will be future changes that compatibility versions will make to discovery. That would also avoid code complexity and developer time required to implement merging if we can get it mostly for free once compatibility version finishes.

TLDR: how about going with c). ?

>   - We will proxy the discovery request to the newest available apiserver in the cluster. In doing so, we will ensure that all discovery requests are handled keeping the future state of the cluster in mind. 

Reviewer 3: > Note also that the compatibility version KEP requires introducing the ability to produce a discovery document for a version different than the binary version

My initial assumption is this wouldn't require a code change. If compatibility version KEP is changing the storage version & enabling/disabling certain versions before API registration, then I'd expect that the discovery document should only reflect the installed/enabled APIs. 

I've seen controllers use the discovery information as the source of truth as to what GVs are available. IMO it would be surprising to be able to send a request to an apiserver and have it proxied/served, but that resource not be listed in discovery when I query the same service.

>   - We will proxy the discovery request to the newest available apiserver in the cluster. In doing so, we will ensure that all discovery requests are handled keeping the future state of the cluster in mind. 

Reviewer 2: So, once we make UVIP compatibility version aware, we will route client requests to only those apiservers that are compatible with the client. That is also one of the beta criteria added [here](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/4441/files#diff-5f6582f50a19d8d39a3a9045f6f9b6e404edd88ef829c187709437484bf308f8R212-R265). And the compatibility version KEP will provide discovery for a compatibility range. Agree that there will be some gap till when compatibility version aware discovery happens (UVIP should remain beta till then), but eventually we should be in a state where UVIP proxying and discovery are aligned.

* Version Aware Proxying:

>   - With [compatibility versions](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/4395) information available for kubernetes components, we can leverage that to perform version aware proxying between API servers, and ensure that a request is proxied to an eligible apiserver given that it was generated by a client compatible with the apiserver/s present in a cluster. Version aware proxying lets us ensure that requests from clients (possibly) expecting to use a feature introduced in later K8s versions,  are not incorrectly routed to apiservers at older versions.

Reviewer 4: Do we need to describe how clients would declare their version to servers here?

Reviewer 2: Added a suggestion for specifying this information in client request headers. Also added a TODO section to flesh out the details of the same in Design Details.

deleted; this could result in it deleting a subsequent object that it should
not.

> This proposal will cause the GC to behave in the following way for the scenarios described:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This proposal will cause the garbage collection controller to behave in the following way for the scenarios described:
```

- Case 1: if the resource is being deleted in the newer version 

>     - Any actions taken on this resource during the upgrade will render useless after the upgrade when these objects are orphaned so we can act fast and proxy this request to the newer apiserver. Garbage collection will be triggered for a deleted resource, which is correct in this case

Reviewer 2: Oh my initial(incorrect) understanding was that the newest apiserver will respond with the list of available resources in the new state and GC would assume that the resources not found in this list are safe to be deleted.

But if the GC will only act on resources from the list returned by the newest apiserver, then yes the objects from the deleted API will remain hanging waiting for something to claim them. :/  
I need to find more details on how garbage collection works for K8s objects. Will update here once I have more clarity. Thanks for the review though!

- Case 2: if the resource is being introduced in the newer version

>     - If the resource is being introduced in the newer version - proxying the discovery request to the newer apiserver is anyway the right thing to do. Garbage collection will be blocked which is also correct

Reviewer 2: Ah I just meant that GC would see that the objects of the newly introduced API are available (as the discovery doc returned by the newest apiserver would reflect so). And if such objects are being referenced, it would not attempt to delete those.

correctness problem, the garbage will reappear if a namespace of the same name
is recreated.

> This proposal will cause the NLC to behave in the following way for the scenarios described:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This proposal will cause the namespace lifecycle controller to behave in the following way for the scenarios described:
```

- Case 1: if the resource is being deleted in the newer version

>   - if the resource is actually being deleted in the newer version, namespace deletion will be triggered - which makes sense for the eventual state of the cluster. 

Reviewer 2: Updated my understanding of the NLC's behavior. Though its unclear now how serving the latest discovery doc will solve this problem.

- Case 2: If the resource is being introduced in the newer version

>   - namespace deletion is not triggered, as it should not - since these resources exist in the newer version of the cluster

Reviewer 2: Updated. Thanks.
